All right we now know how to create entities which are simple POJO classes and have them created in
the H-2 database.
What we're going to do now is we're going to create a repository and interact with our entity and our
data create it update it delete it and create within the database with the help of spring data to do
that.
I'm going to create a new project
I'll click next and name this project as repository.
So let's just use our name throughout the artifact and description.
All right I'll click next.
And inherited tendencies.
I'm going to go to Web and how do web selected and I'm going to go to sequel and click JPA.
And I'm also going to select age 2 which is our database so that's all we need for now and I'm going
to click next.
I'm all set with the directories and modules so I'm going to click Finish.
All right.
We have our project created and as you can see maybe one is resolving our dependencies.
Let's take a look at our project structure.
Under the source directory We have a Java package which has always been good application class and on
the resources we have application up properties.
So as I said in the beginning what we're going to do in this tutorial we're going to create a repository
and for that repository of course we're going to need an entity how we're going to do this entity.
We're going to use a simple poser class and have it created in the H-2 database then we're simply going
to interact with this database throughout the spring data.
Let's just start by our model object our simple POJO or our entity.
All right.
So I'm going to go to our base package and I'm going to create a package named Mottau
and what I'm going to do now I'm going to create a product POJO.
So let's do it.
All right we have our Fozia So in this POJO what we're going to do is we're going to have some simple
properties that a product can have.
So let's just give this product and Id.
And of course this product is going to have a name and let's do that too.
And what else do we need we need of course a type for product
and we also need a category so let's create a category object to
and we should have a description
and of course this product is going to have a price.
So let's just define our prize as a double.
All right.
We have all of our simple answers wearables.
So what we're going to do now we're just going to generate our getters and setters.
So how select all and hit OK.
There we go.
We have our getters and setters.
So what I'm going to do now is I'll just annotate this class POJO as an entity so I'm going to the top
and I'll hit enter.
We have our POJO as an entity now.
So what else do we need for the ID field.
We're going to have a generation strategy as we discussed in the creating section in this section we're
going to do a little bit different thing.
In this action we're going to have generated a you ID you know or so identifier string that is generated
with a RACC format.
So how we are going to do that we're going to first annotate our ID as ID.
So we're going to use jaywalks that persistence and we're going to say generated value and it's also
going to come from the persistence.
So we're going to say a strategy that we're going to use for that strategy.
I'm going to say generation type got Odo and for a generator This is new for this tutorial because in
A.S. we didn't use any generators.
We're going to use now.
So I'm going to say I'm going to use system dash you ID.
All right this generator name that I said here is going to be used with the generator that I'm going
to provide to generate.
I'm going to provide it this way.
I'll say Generac generator from the hibernate annotations.
I'm going to give the name to it as we define system dash you ID as you can see I'm using the same name
with the generator here.
So this generated value is going to be generated with this strategy with this generator.
So what else do I need.
I of course need the actual strategy for a generation.
So the strategy is going to be you ID too.
So this is the last version of the ID generator.
So I'm going using it right now.
That's the best idea generator you can find in the Java ecosystem.
All right.
As you can see it's all you have to do to have a you I.D. automatically created for you.
And this is all going to happen in the database.
We have our ID creation strategy ready so let's just fire up our application for the first time and
see our data in a database to do that.
Of course we're going to use some application properties in the application of properties.
We're going to provide the similar things we provide in the entity section.
So we're going to say spring that data source that you are l and that you're out is going to start with
JTB C and we're going to say H-2 and we're going to say it's going to be persisted in a file.
And also we're going to provide the name of our database so our database is going to be products.
All right.
And I'm also going to use a username and password of course.
So for that I'm going to say spring dot datasource username and I'm going to use our same username from
the previous Tauriel.
So it's used as a for a password.
I'm going to say spring got datasource out password.
It's just going to be empty.
So what else do I need.
I need of course our driver you are.
So I'm going to provide our driver class name just like this spring dot data source dark gray work dash
class name and as you can see intelligence says that I'm going to use H-2 and it's showing us that option.
I'm going to just hit enter.
There we go.
We have or dot dot Groer.
All right.
What else we're going to do.
We're going to say that we want to enable the H2 console so we can see our entity created in the database.
So let's just enable the console.
And before we do let's just say that we're going to use the H2 as the path and for the console we're
going to say
spring that H-2 that console that enable to true.
And of course we want the sequel to be showing on the console for us.
So spring that JPA does show sequel is going to be true also.
All right.
We have everything ready to create our application create our entity in our database.
So let's take out if everything is alright to do that.
I'm going to run our application
all right as you can see our database is up and it's created with the statements at table as dropped
if it existed before and then it created again the ID category description name price type and the ID
as the primary key.
All right.
Our application is up and running in Port 80 80.
So let's take out our H2 console to see if our database Our table is created.
So I'm going to open up the Firefox and I'll go to localhost ADHD and slash H-2
here we go.
We have our database ready to be connected.
So let's just test our connection first.
It's successful.
So let's connect to our database
here we have our product table created for us with all the fields that we want it to be created us with
how Id category description name price and the type.
And as you can see here we have our prize column as double and its size is 17 automatically Salles to
select our data from the database first.
And I'm going to collect the product here and I'm going to run our statement as you can see we don't
have anything in our database.
So let's just work on that now.
What we're going to do is we're going to create a repository and that repository is going to allow us
to interact with our database with our data.
So let's do that now.
To do that I'm going to create a new package and I'm going to name it as the repository.
So let's just create a new package and name it as repository.
All right.
And in this package I'm going to click Create a new product repository.
And this time I'm not going to create a new class.
I'm going to create an interface I'll just explain this in a minute.
So let's just create our product repository interface.
Here we go.
We have our interface.
So what this interface is going to do is we're going to extend the JPA repository with this interface
and by extending that JPA repository we're going to have a full fledged JPA repository implementation
with our product repository automatically.
So let's just implement the JPA repository and see what it looks like.
So what I'm going to do is now I'm going to extend the JPA repository.
And as you can see it's receiving two parameters.
The first one is a generic argument which is Martez t this argument is saying that you can receive any
argument with your JPA repository.
And that's becoming your product and tity we have here.
Or any entity that you want to be created in the repository interface so that you can interact with.
And the second argument is going to be the ID field of your database the distinct field that you want
to be coring against the database so that your repository can be used with this unique identifier and
you can query your data without any collision in your database.
So you don't have to normalize or normalize your data with this is a distinct way.
So what we're going to do now we're going to say you want the product entity as a reference of this
database is JPA repository.
So I'm going to say product first.
And as you remember we said that we're going to be use the ID field as string.
So this Krink field is ID field is going to be our querying the main queering method with that way.
Even if we don't have any specific queries created in our JPA repository we can still query our database.
We can still update or delete or create some data in our database.
So let's just say that we want this to be strenge.
There you go.
The other thing that we're going to use with this repository and the last thing actually is the repository
annotation.
So that Sprint can understand that this is a bean and it's specifically marked as a repository so we
can interact with the response of Torri with this annotation.
So I marked this interface as a repository as you can see here.
It's coming from the O'Dowd's Spring Framework that stereotype repository.
All right.
We How a very simple interface.
Actually we didn't even do anything specific here with this product repository interface.
All right.
Now let's make use of this interface and work with our data.
What would our product table to do that.
I'm going to switch to our repository Application class our spring book class in this class I'm going
to interact with our database and I'll although why are the JPA repositories that we created which is
the product Depository.
And then we can persist any data that we want we can say we can update and we can do it.
So to do that I'm just going to extend it so we can see everything clearly and I'll start by all the
wiring.
Our product repository with this application main class.
So to do that I'm going to create an instance variable for product repository
Henrico
and what I want to do this time as I'm going to use the Stettner injection with the other method of
spreading to use a set or injection.
You can do two things.
You can write your own centers or you can let intill create a server for me to do that click command
and and hit setter.
And as you can see we have our product repository instance variable displayed here.
So let's just hit OK.
Here we go.
You can just rename this central method name with the repository and we're all fine too although I read.
Of course we're going to say that we want this to be otherwise pretty all over the annotation.
All right.
This is actually the way that spring to Alpers the Pillard all guys are encouraging you to use the injection.
The other wired the bean injection type the autopilot as it's used like this.
It's not healthy because with this way the dependencies that the product repository uses might get really
complex and time.
And when they got complex the divinest injection might get some problems with it.
It might not how initialized all the billions that it's referring to are some other problems might occur
in the future if your dependencies get really complex.
So to avoid that the center injection is the best way.
And as I've said before it's the way that are old guys they spring developers are encouraging us to
do that.
All right.
From now on I'm going to use the celery injection in my other wirings.
So you should use that too.
After cleaning this out I'm moving on with my implementation and to do that I'm going to use another
new thing with my class and that thing is the command line runner.
It's an interface.
And we're going to implement this interface.
So I'll explain it in a minute.
So let's just implement the command line run as you can see all dot Spring Framework up boot all right
and as it's shown here we need to implement the run method of the command line interface.
So let's do that now and I'm going to say implement methods.
And as you can see we have just run and I'm going to hit OK here we go.
What this command line runner interface is as the name suggests is a command line runner.
And when I'm using this with the actual application class I'm saying that whenever the application is
up I want this run method to be executed in the startup of the application.
This is a very useful way for your prototypes for your testing's or anything that you want to try out
with your applications or any new component that you want to test out before you actually include in
your production process.
So that's why I prefer the command line runner with the boss of Doree application this time so that
whatever I do in this run method is going to be executed in the startup of the application right after
these sorts of startup.
All right so now let's just create some products and have them persisted in our database in our database.
So I'm going to say
product and this is going to be product one it's going to be a new product.
And I'll set the name as the test their product
and I'm going to read the description.
This is a cluster product and I'm going to give it a category and that category is going to be test
so I'm going to give the type and the type is going to be general and of course we're going to set the
price and price is going to be zero because this is a test of product.
All right.
So what are we going to do to persist this in our database.
What we're going to do is we're just going to call our product repository and we all need to say that
we want this to be saved.
And as you can see we don't have any method in our product repository all the save and other options
we receive in here are coming from the JPA repository interface and this is a very nice way to have
a repository even if you don't have any specific querying or persisting matters with your repository.
So what we're going to do now is since we're going to persist a single object single product data we're
going to use this option and say we just want to persist our product one.
All right.
So to see if everything is all right by now let's just rerun our application and see what's going on
or click rerun
and our application started at Port ADHD and you should notice that we have a new line appearing right
here before the application started Loek printed out here.
So what this look says that our data is inserted into a database inserted into a database with the help
of our product repository right here.
And that was extending the J-P repository with the product and string injection.
And what we're going to do now is to check the data that if it's persisted in the data is actually to
do that I'm going to bring up the Firefox again and I'm just going to refresh our session with the H-2
database
and let's just reconnect and let's just query our product database.
I'm clicking again on the product name and our hit run.
Here we go.
We have all the data that we need in our product table.
And the first thing you should notice is the ID field the ID field is a new ID with the standard definition
and it's all generated with the helper of the generators in the jokes the persistence and the of course
hibernate annotations.
So let's just rewind back to it and see what was going on there.
Our idea was a you I.D. and the generator is called System Dasch you ID as we named it when we started
the implementation and the strategy was you did too.
And this is just a strategy and you can use any other strategy available to you with the Joe definition
Joe AJP definition and of course the generation type was Udoh and this ID this new idea was generated
automatically by hibernate.
So let's get back to Firefox again.
And now let's just review all other columns in the database.
And as you can see our test category is persisted.
Our description is a this is a test product and our name is Tusser product again and our price is zero.
And of course our type is general and we should remember that what we did to have this stayed up persisted
to our database was we said we need a new product with this line and then we said our name.
We said our description.
We said our category.
We said our type.
And finally we at our price then all we had done was we called our repository with the of course injection
of the underwired variable of the product repository and then we just called the same method and we
passed in the product one as our persisting object.
And it was all handled by spring data and again our console upload was showing us the insert statement
right here.
All right.
This was the way to simply persist any data any POJO any entity that you want in the H2 database or
any database that you want because of the help of the JP repositories and to move on further with updating
and deleting all the seeing in the next video.